.TH MAKELOG 1 "11 Mar 2003" LOCAL "Bristol Earth Sci."
.SH NAME
makelog \- read SEED volumes to make cdseis log files for extracting data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makelog
[-s][-d][ -cat {cmt|std} ]
cddir
[ catalog ]
<
.I "file-list"
>
.I "index-list"
.br
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
-s
Dump station information only, don't make a log file.
This is to obtain information about the locations of the stations with data
recorded in the SEED volume.
.TP 
-d
Debug.
Add detailed information about the structure of the SEED volume for debugging
purposes.
Repead -d for more detail.
.TP 
-cat {cmt|std}
Catalog type if the volume is not event-oriented.
Use ``cmt'' if you want to the Harvard CMT catalog format, ``std'' if you have
a simple list of events of interest.
.TP 
catalog
file name containing catalog information.
For the Harvard CMT catalog, this must be in the DEK format.
On the U. Bristol system, this file is /usr/share/data/CMT/cmtdat.
Alternatively, a ``std'' format catalog consists of lines with:
.nf
  year mo day hr mn sec   lat       lon      depth  mb  other mag
.fi
An example of an input line might read,
.nf
         1998 07 25  02 39 23.30 -13.608   166.867   44.0  5.9  6.0
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I makelog
reads SEED volumes and associates the traces in them with events in an
earthquake catalog.
This lets you extract the data based on time windows after specific earthquakes.
The program that extracts the data is
.IR cdseis (1);
makelog only prepares the indices that
.IR cdseis (1)
uses (which is a significant bit of work in itself).
.PP
Some SEED volumes contain event information, but most do not \(em
specifically, those that result from BREQ_FAST requests from the IRIS DMC
don't contain any.
If the volume does not contain event information, you must specify a catalog,
and the catalog type in order for
.I makelog
to work.
Otherwise, makelog only needs to know where the directory containing the seed
files is located (given on the command line), and a list of files containing
the SEED data (from standard input).
A typical way to run
.I makelog
is by typing,
.nf

     (cd /tmp ; ls *.seed | makelog /tmp) > logfile

.fi
In this example, the SEED volumes are in the directory /tmp, their names
end with the suffix ``.seed'', and they implicitly contain event information.
The output is written to the file called ``logfile'' which will, ultimately,
be used by
.IR cdseis (1)
for further data processing.
.PP
To index volumes lacking event information you must provide a catalog type
and file.
Again, a typical way to run
.I makelog
is,
.nf

     (cd /tmp ; ls *.seed | \\
	makelog -cat cmt /tmp /usr/share/data/CMT/cmtdat ) > logfile

.fi
.PP
.I makelog
also produces a file called ``makelog.log'' each time it is run.
This file contains a summary of the traces that were indexed by the program
and records any problems reading the volumes.
Check it to see whether any significant problems are reported (rare, but
possible because SEED volume format is constantly evolving).
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
George Helffrich, U. Bristol
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR cdseis (1).
